{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0\stshfdbch0\stshfloch0\stshfhich0\stshfbi0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}
{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1{\*\panose 02070309020205020404}Courier New;}{\f35\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 020b0604030504040204}Tahoma;}{\f36\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f37\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}
{\f39\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}{\f40\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}{\f41\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}{\f42\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}
{\f43\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}{\f44\froman\fcharset163\fprq2 Times New Roman (Vietnamese);}{\f56\fmodern\fcharset238\fprq1 Courier New CE;}{\f57\fmodern\fcharset204\fprq1 Courier New Cyr;}
{\f59\fmodern\fcharset161\fprq1 Courier New Greek;}{\f60\fmodern\fcharset162\fprq1 Courier New Tur;}{\f61\fmodern\fcharset177\fprq1 Courier New (Hebrew);}{\f62\fmodern\fcharset178\fprq1 Courier New (Arabic);}
{\f63\fmodern\fcharset186\fprq1 Courier New Baltic;}{\f64\fmodern\fcharset163\fprq1 Courier New (Vietnamese);}{\f386\fswiss\fcharset238\fprq2 Tahoma CE;}{\f387\fswiss\fcharset204\fprq2 Tahoma Cyr;}{\f389\fswiss\fcharset161\fprq2 Tahoma Greek;}
{\f390\fswiss\fcharset162\fprq2 Tahoma Tur;}{\f391\fswiss\fcharset177\fprq2 Tahoma (Hebrew);}{\f392\fswiss\fcharset178\fprq2 Tahoma (Arabic);}{\f393\fswiss\fcharset186\fprq2 Tahoma Baltic;}{\f394\fswiss\fcharset163\fprq2 Tahoma (Vietnamese);}
{\f395\fswiss\fcharset222\fprq2 Tahoma (Thai);}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;
\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive \ssemihidden Default Paragraph Font;}{\*
\ts11\tsrowd\trftsWidthB3\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3\trcbpat1\trcfpat1\tscellwidthfts0\tsvertalt\tsbrdrt\tsbrdrl\tsbrdrb\tsbrdrr\tsbrdrdgl\tsbrdrdgr\tsbrdrh\tsbrdrv 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1024\langfe1024\cgrid\langnp1024\langfenp1024 \snext11 \ssemihidden Normal Table;}{\s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\f2\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext15 \styrsid4861709 Plain Text;}}{\*\rsidtbl \rsid4861709\rsid7890496\rsid12129657\rsid14951729}{\*\generator Microsoft Word 10.0.2627;}{\info{\title MONOPOLIE RULES}
{\author Schmitt}{\operator Schmitt}{\creatim\yr2003\mo8\dy12\hr11\min4}{\revtim\yr2003\mo8\dy12\hr17\min15}{\version4}{\edmins0}{\nofpages4}{\nofwords1850}{\nofchars10545}{\*\company .}{\nofcharsws12371}{\vern16437}}\margl1319\margr1319 
\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\formshade\horzdoc\dgmargin\dghspace180\dgvspace180\dghorigin1319\dgvorigin1440\dghshow1\dgvshow1
\jexpand\viewkind1\viewscale100\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot\splytwnine\ftnlytwnine\htmautsp\nolnhtadjtbl\useltbaln\alntblind\lytcalctblwd\lyttblrtgr\lnbrkrule\nobrkwrptbl\snaptogridincell\allowfieldendsel\wrppunct\asianbrkrule\rsidroot4861709 \fet0\sectd 
\linex0\endnhere\sectlinegrid360\sectdefaultcl\sectrsid4861709\sftnbj {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang 
{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain 
\s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid4861709 \f2\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\f35\fs32\cf9\insrsid14951729\charrsid14951729 MONOPOLIE RULES
\par }{\f35\insrsid14951729\charrsid14951729 
\par }{\b\f35\cf6\insrsid14951729\charrsid14951729 OBJECT...}{\f35\insrsid14951729\charrsid14951729 The object of the game is to become the wealthiest player through buying, renting and selling property.
\par 
\par }{\b\f35\cf6\insrsid14951729\charrsid14951729 EQUIPMENT...}{\f35\insrsid14951729\charrsid14951729 
The equipment consists of a board, 2 dice, tokens 32 houses and 12 hotels. There are Chance and Community Chest cards, a Title Deed card for each property and play money.
\par 
\par }{\b\f35\cf6\insrsid14951729\charrsid14951729 PREPARATION...}{\f35\insrsid14951729\charrsid14951729 Place the board on a table a}{\f35\insrsid12129657 nd put the Chance and Community }{\f35\insrsid14951729\charrsid14951729 Chest card
s face-down on their allotted spaces on the board. Each player chooses one token to represent him on his travels around the board.
\par 
\par Each player is given $1500 divided as follows: 2 each of $500's, $100's and $50's; 6-$20's; 5 each of $10's, $5's and $1's.
\par 
\par All remaining money and other equipment go to the Bank.
\par 
\par }{\b\f35\cf6\insrsid14951729\charrsid14951729 BANKER...}{\f35\insrsid14951729\charrsid14951729 
Select as Banker a player who will also make a good Auctioneer. If the Banker plays in the game, he must keep his personal funds separate from those of the Bank. When more than five persons play, the Banker may elect to act only as Banker and Auctioneer.

\par 
\par }{\b\f35\cf6\insrsid14951729\charrsid14951729 THE BANK...}{\f35\insrsid14951729\charrsid14951729 
Besides the Bank's money, the Bank holds the Title Deed cards and houses and hotels prior to purchase and use by the players. The Bank pays salaries and bonuses. It sells and auc
tions properties and hands out their proper Title Deed cards; it sells houses and hotels to the players and loans money when required on mortgages.
\par 
\par The Bank collects all taxes, fines, loans and interest, and the price of all properties which it sells and auctions.
\par 
\par The Bank never "goes broke". If the Bank runs out of money it may issue as much more as may be needed by merely writing on any ordinary paper.
\par 
\par }{\b\f35\cf6\insrsid14951729\charrsid14951729 THE PLAY...}{\f35\insrsid14951729\charrsid14951729 Starting with the Banker, each }{\f35\insrsid7890496 player in turn throws the dice. }{\f35\insrsid14951729\charrsid14951729 The player with the highest
 total starts the play. He places his token on the corner marked "GO", throws the 2 dice and moves his token in the direction of the arrow the number of spaces indicated by the dice. After he has completed his play, the turn to play passes to the left. Th
e tokens remain on the spaces occupied and proceed from that point on the player's next turn. Two or more tokens may rest on the same space at the same time.
\par 
\par According to the space which his token reaches, a player may be entitled to buy real estate or other properties, -or be obliged to pay rent, pay taxes, draw a Chance or Community Chest card, "Go to Jail", etc.
\par 
\par If a player throws doubles he moves his token as usual the sum of the two dice and is subject to any privileges or penalties pertaining to the 
space on which he lands. Retaining the dice, he throws again and moves his token as before. If a player throws doubles three times in succession, he moves his token immediately to the space marked "In Jail" (see JAIL).
\par 
\par }{\b\f35\cf6\insrsid14951729\charrsid14951729 "GO"...}{\f35\insrsid14951729\charrsid14951729 Each time a player's token lands on or passes over "GO", whether by throw of the dice or by drawing a card, the Banker pays him $200 salary.
\par 
\par However, $200 is paid only once each time around the board. If a player, passing "GO" on the throw of the dice, lands 2 spaces beyond it on "Co
mmunity Chest", or 7 spaces beyond it on "Chance", and draws the card "Advance to GO", he collects $200 for passing "GO" the first time and another $200 for reaching it the second time by instructions on the card.
\par 
\par }{\b\f35\cf6\insrsid14951729\charrsid14951729 BUYING PROPERTY...}{\f35\insrsid14951729\charrsid14951729 
Whenever a player lands on an un-owned property he may buy that property from the Bank at its printed price. He receives the Title Deed card showing ownership and places it face-up in front of him.
\par 
\par If he does not wish to buy the property it is sold at auc
tion by the Banker to the highest bidder. The buyer pays to the Bank the amount of the bid in cash and receives the Title Deed card for that property. Any player, including the one who declined the option of buying it at the printed price, may bid. Biddin
g may start at any price.
\par 
\par }{\b\f35\cf6\insrsid14951729\charrsid14951729 PAYING RENT...}{\f35\insrsid14951729\charrsid14951729 
When a player lands on property owned by another player the owner collects rent from him in accordance with the list printed on the Title Deed card applying to it.
\par 
\par If the property is mortgaged, no rent can be collected. When a property is mortgaged its Title Deed card is placed face-down in front of the owner.
\par 
\par It is an advantage to hold all the Title Deeds in a color-group (i.e.: Boardwalk and Park Place, - or Connecticut, Vermont and Oriental Avenues) because the o
wner may then charge double rent for unimproved properties in that color-group. This rule applies to un-mortgaged properties even if another property in that color-group is mortgaged.
\par 
\par It is even more of an advantage to have houses or hotels on properties because rents are much higher than for unimproved properties.
\par 
\par The owner may not collect his rent if he fails to ask for it before the second player following throws the dice.
\par 
\par }{\b\f35\cf6\insrsid14951729\charrsid14951729 "CHANCE" and "COMMUNITY CHEST"...}{\f35\insrsid14951729\charrsid14951729 When a player lands on either of these spaces 
he takes the top card from the deck indicated, follows the instructions and returns the card face-down to the bottom of the deck.
\par 
\par The "Get Out of Jail Free" card is held until used and then returned to the bottom of the deck. If the player who draws it does not wish to use it he may sell it, at any time, to another player at a price agreeable to both.
\par 
\par }{\b\f35\cf6\insrsid14951729\charrsid14951729 "INCOME TAX"...}{\f35\insrsid14951729\charrsid14951729 When a player lands on "Income Tax" he has two options: he may estimate his tax at $200 and pay the Bank, or he may pay 10% of his total wort
h to the Bank. His total worth is all his cash on hand, printed prices of mortgaged and un-mortgaged properties and cost price of all buildings he owns.
\par 
\par The player must decide which option he will take before he adds up his total worth.
\par 
\par }{\b\f35\cf6\insrsid14951729\charrsid14951729 JAIL...}{\f35\insrsid14951729\charrsid14951729 A player l
ands in Jail when. . . (1.) His token lands on the space marked "Go to Jail"; (2.) he draws a card marked "Go to Jail"; (3.) he throws doubles three times in succession.
\par 
\par When a player is sent to Jail he cannot collect $200 salary in that move since, regardless of where his token is on the board, he must move it directly into Jail. A player's turn ends when he is sent to Jail.
\par 
\par If a player is not "sent to Jail" but in the ordinary course of play lands on that space, he is "Just Visiting", incurs no penalty, and moves ahead in the usual manner on his next turn.
\par 
\par A player gets out o
f Jail by... (1.) Throwing doubles on any of his next three turns. If he succeeds in doing this he immediately moves forward the number of spaces shown by his doubles throw. Even though he has thrown doubles he does not take another turn; (2.) using the "
Get Out of Jail Free" card if he has it; (3.) purchasing the "Get Out of Jail Free" card from another player and playing it; (4.) paying a fine of $50 before he rolls the dice on either of his next two turns
\par 
\par If the player does not throw doubles by his third turn he must pay the $50 fine. He then gets out of Jail and immediately moves forward the number of spaces shown by his throw.
\par 
\par Even though he is in Jail, a player may buy or sell property, buy or sell houses and hotels and collect rents.
\par 
\par }{\b\f35\cf6\insrsid14951729\charrsid14951729 FREE PARKING...}{\f35\insrsid14951729\charrsid14951729 A player landing on this space does not receive any money, property or reward of any kind. This is just a "free" resting place.
\par 
\par }{\b\f35\cf6\insrsid14951729\charrsid14951729 HOUSES...}{\f35\insrsid14951729\charrsid14951729 When a player owns all the properties in a color group he may buy houses from the Bank and erect them on those properties.
\par 
\par If he buys one house, he may put it on any one of those properties. The next house he buys must be erected on one of the unimproved properties of this or any other complete color-group he may own.
\par 
\par The price he must pay the Bank for each house is shown on his Title Deed card for the property on which he erects the house.
\par 
\par The owner can still collect double rent from an opponent who lands on the unimproved properties of his complete color-group.
\par 
\par Following the above rules, a player may buy and erect a
t any time as many houses as his judgment and financial standing will allow. But he must build evenly (i.e.: he cannot erect more than one house on any one property of any color-group until he has built one house on every property of that group. He may th
en begin on the second row of houses, and so on, up to a limit of four houses to a property. For example, he cannot build three houses on one property if he has only one house on another property of that group.).
\par 
\par As a player builds evenly, he must also break down evenly if he sells houses back to the Bank (SEE SELLING PROPERTY).
\par 
\par }{\b\f35\cf6\insrsid14951729\charrsid14951729 HOTELS...}{\f35\insrsid14951729\charrsid14951729 
When a player has four houses on each property of a complete color-group, he may buy a hotel from the Bank and erect it on any property of that color-group. He returns the
 four houses from that property to the Bank and pays the price for the hotel as shown on the Title Deed card. Only one hotel may be erected on any one property.
\par 
\par }{\b\f35\cf6\insrsid14951729\charrsid14951729 BUILDING SHORTAGE...}{\f35\insrsid14951729\charrsid14951729 When the Bank has no houses to sell; players wishing to build must wait fo
r some player to turn back or to sell his houses to the Bank before building. If there are a limited number of houses and hotels available, and two or more players wish to buy more than the Bank has, the houses or hotels must be sold at auction to the hig
hest bidder.
\par 
\par }{\b\f35\cf6\insrsid14951729\charrsid14951729 SELLING PROPERTY...}{\f35\insrsid14951729\charrsid14951729 
Unimproved properties, railroads and utilities (but not buildings) may be sold to any player as a private transaction for any amount that the owner can get. However, no property can be sold to another player if buildings are
 standing on any properties of that color-group. Any buildings so located must be sold back to the Bank before the owner can sell any property of that color-group.
\par 
\par Houses and hotels may be sold back to the Bank at any time for one-half the price paid for them.
\par 
\par All houses on one color-group must be sold one by one, evenly, in reverse of the manner in which they were erected.
\par 
\par All hotels on one color-group may be sold at once. Or they may be sold one house at a time (one hotel equals five houses), evenly, in reverse of the manner in which they were erected.
\par 
\par }{\b\f35\cf6\insrsid14951729\charrsid14951729 MORTGAGES...}{\f35\insrsid14951729\charrsid14951729 Unimproved properties can be mortgaged through the Bank at 
any time. Before an improved property can be mortgaged all the buildings on all the properties of its color-group must be sold back to the Bank at half price. The mortgage value is printed on each Title Deed card.
\par 
\par No rent can be collected on mortgaged properties or utilities, but rent can be collected on un-mortgaged properties in the same group.
\par 
\par In order to lift the mortgage, the owner must pay the Bank the amount of the mortgage plus 10% interest. When all the properties of a color-group are no longer mortgaged the owner may begin to buy back houses at full price.
\par 
\par The player who mortgages property retains possession of it and no other player may secure it by lifting the mortgage from the Bank. However, the owner may sell this mortgaged property to anoth
er player at any agreed price. The new owner may lift the mortgage at once, if he wishes, by paying off the mortgage plus 10% interest to the Bank. If he does not lift the mortgage at once he must pay the Bank 10% interest when he buys the property and if
 he lifts the mortgage later he must pay an additional 10% interest as well as the amount of the mortgage to the Bank.
\par 
\par }{\b\f35\cf6\insrsid14951729\charrsid14951729 BANKRUPTCY...}{\f35\insrsid14951729\charrsid14951729 A player is bankrupt when he owes more than he can pay either to another player or to the Bank. If his debt is to another pl
ayer, he must turn over to that player all that he has of value and retire from the game. In making this settlement, if he owns houses or hotels, he must return these to the Bank in exchange for money to the extent of one-half the amount paid for them and
 
this cash is given to the creditor. If he has mortgaged property he also turns this property over to his creditor but the new owner must at once pay the Bank the amount of interest on the loan, which is 10% of the value of the property. After the new owne
r does this, he may, at his option, pay the principal or hold the property until some later turn at which time he may lift the mortgage. If he holds property in this way until a later turn, he must pay the interest again when he lifts the mortgage.
\par 
\par Should a player owe the Bank, instead of another player, more than he can pay (because of taxes or penalties) even by selling his buildings and mortgaging property, he must }{\f35\insrsid14951729 turn over all his assets to the }{
\f35\insrsid14951729\charrsid14951729 Bank. In this case, the Bank immediately sells by auction all property so taken, except buildings. A bankrupt player must immediately retire from the game. The last player left in the game wins.
\par 
\par }{\b\f35\cf6\insrsid14951729\charrsid14951729 MISCELLANEOUS...}{\f35\insrsid14951729\charrsid14951729 Money can only be loaned to a player by the Bank and then only by mortgaging property. No player may borrow from or lend money to another player.}{
\f35\insrsid4861709\charrsid14951729 
\par }}